.TH NCD 1
.SH NAME
ncd \- compute the Normalized Compression Distance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ncd
.B [ -bfhilrs ] [-c compressor ] [ --labels ] [-o key=value ] [arg1] [arg2]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The Normalized Compression Distance between two objects is defined as
.TP
.B "    NCD(a,b) = (C(a,b) - min(C(a),C(b))) / max(C(a),C(b))"
.TP
where 
.TP 8
.B C(a,b)
means "the compressed size of the concatenation of a and b"
.TP
.B C(a)
means "the compressed size of a"
.TP
.B C(b)
means "the compressed size of b"
  
.PP
.B ncd
will print a non-negative number (typically, but not always, 0 <= x < 1.1)
representing how different the two objects are.  Smaller numbers represent more
similar files.  The largest number is somewhere near 1.  It is not exactly 1
due to imperfections in compression techniques or other irregularities
underlying compressor, but for most standard compression algorithms you are
unlikely to see a number above 1.1 in any case.

.PP
At least two compressors are available by default: zlib and xz.  These
may be selected with the \fB-c\fR option.  Use \fBncd -l\fR for more details.

.SH ENUMERATION MODES
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-filename-list\fR=\fIFILE\fR
select filename list mode, where a file lists filenames one per line.
.TP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-compressor\fR=\fIcompressor\fR
use and set compressor to use
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\-compressors\fR
list available compressor names.
.TP
\fB\-\-labels\fR
add labels to output.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-basic\fR
instead of calculating NCD, print just the compressed size of a single \fIFILE\fR, \fISTRING\fR, or \fIDIR\fR or the total compressed size of a concatenated pair when using two arguments.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-option\fR=\fIkey=value\fR
specify compressor option such as \fB-o level=4\fR to specify compression
level 4 for zlib or xz compressors.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-info\fR
Print detailed info about the default compressor or another one specified using \fB\-c\fR
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-square\fR
Assume a square so that only one argument need be specified. It will be used twice.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show help options and exit
.SH FILES

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
none
.SH "SEE ALSO"
